President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans broke their promise to conservative voters by including funding for Planned Parenthood, which receives approximately $500 million in taxpayer funding each year, in the omnibus bill that Trump signed into law on Friday.

Trump, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and other Republican leaders promised their voters for years that they would defund Planned Parenthood if given the chance to govern.

Now, with Republican majorities in the House and Senate and a Republican in the White House, the nation’s number one killer of unborn children will continue receiving hundreds of millions of dollars in taxpayer funding.

Planned Parenthood receives approximately $500 million in taxpayer funding every year through Medicaid and Title X grants for family planning. (RELATED: Twitter Won’t Stop Censoring Pro-Lifers)

The spending bill breaks Trump’s campaign promise to his voters, but it does fulfill a promise that his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, made on the campaign trail in 2016.

Clinton promised to continue funding Planned Parenthood if elected president, while Trump assured his voters that he would defund the abortion giant if he won.

Republican Texas Sen. Ted Cruz said he voted against the spending bill in part because it provided taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. (RELATED: Planned Parenthood Partners Admit To Liability For Selling Baby Parts)

“It continues to fund Planned Parenthood, a corrupt organization whose horrifying abortion practices should preclude it from receiving taxpayer dollars,” Cruz said.

Republican Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul also voted against the omnibus bill, citing the legislation’s Planned Parenthood funding.

Watch Tim Tebow’s Mom Give Inspiring Pro-Life Speech At The March For Life:

Follow Hasson on Twitter @PeterJHasson

Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].