Monday morning, former Donald Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski claimed on CNN that Captain Humayun Khan would still be alive if Donald Trump been president a dozen years ago.

“We’ve had 7,000 soldiers who have died, $6 trillion wasted overseas that if Donald Trump was president, we would never have had, and Captain Khan would be alive today,” Lewandowski, who is now a paid CNN contributor, said.

Khan, a Muslim U.S. Army Captain, was killed in Iraq in 2004 while heroically protecting his men from an attack on their compound. He was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star. Last week, his father, Khizr, delivered an emotional anti-Trump speech during the last night of the Democratic National Convention. Trump initially responded not by recognizing Humayun’s heroism or acknowledging the Khan family’s loss, but by suggesting Khan’s wife Ghazala remained silent during her husband’s DNC speech because her Muslim faith forbid her from speaking.

Later during the CNN segment, Lewandowski explained that since Trump opposed the Iraq War, if he were president, the United States would not have invaded. Thus, not only would Captain Khan still be alive, but so would all the American troops who died in Iraq.

“If Donald Trump was the president, Captain Khan would be alive today, because he would’ve never engaged in a war that didn’t directly benefit this country,” Lewandowski said. “Captain Khan would be alive today, as would 7,000 other U.S. soldiers.”

But Trump didn’t actually oppose the Iraq War from the beginning. BuzzFeed’s Andrew Kaczynski has documented that prior to the March 2003 invasion, Trump said he supported it. In September 2002, Howard Stern asked him “Are you for invading Iraq?” “Yeah, I guess so,” Trump replied. There’s no evidence of Trump opposing the Iraq war prior to it beginning.

Sunday night, Trump’s vice president choice Mike Pence released a statement that began, “Donald Trump and I believe that Captain Humayun Khan is an American hero and his family, like all Gold Star families, should be cherished by every American.” But on Monday morning, Trump was still going after the Khan family on Twitter:

Mr. Khan, who does not know me, viciously attacked me from the stage of the DNC and is now all over T.V. doing the same – Nice! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2016

This story is not about Mr. Khan, who is all over the place doing interviews, but rather RADICAL ISLAMIC TERRORISM and the U.S. Get smart! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2016

Pence, like Hillary Clinton, voted for the October 2002 Iraq Resolution that gave President George W. Bush the authorization to invade months later.

On CNN on Sunday, Khizr Khan made a case that Republican leaders have a moral obligation to repudiate Trump.

Lewandowski, meanwhile, is getting paid by CNN for his political analysis despite the fact he’s contractually barred from criticizing Trump.